README.md, before:

# Shift Notes
__*Shift Notes*__ is a note taking app built for ShiftKey Lab's React Native certification. This repository is a fork of ShiftKey's starter project fort he course. The app will allow users to write notes, save them, modify them and delete them. I also want to add a sharing feature so users can export their note and send it to their contacts and share their thoughts, gift ideas or grocery list.

You can test the application on expo using this [link](https://snack.expo.dev/@sp0k/shift-notes).

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation
Since this repository is my fork, you might be better checking out the [ShiftKey Labs Notion](https://shiftkeylabs.notion.site/Project-Install-Instructions-f937641104bc42e098fcfefcf7349608) for detailed installation instructions if you want to build your own version of the app.

Otherwise, here are the steps to install my fork if you'd rather use mine:

1) **Clone the repository:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Sp0k/ShiftNotes.git
cd ShiftNotes
```
2) **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```
Since this project uses **Expo** instead of Metro, you should make sure to use npm for any of the command you plan to use to install new dependencies or to run the server for example.

3) **Set up the environment:**

If you haven't already, make sure set up the React Native environment for your computer. To do so, follow the React Native environment setup guide for your operating system: [React Native Environment Setup](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

## Usage
Like stated before, the project uses **Expo** instead of metro, so you will need to use npm instead or yarn. In order to be able to view the app, you can use the following command:

```bash
npm run start
```
This will start the server and give you a QR code you can scan with your phone if you want to open the app on your phone using the *Expo Go* app. The server can also be opened on simulators on your computer and on the web.

## Contributing
Sadly, contributions are __not__ welcomed on this repository because it is a course project for a certification. Please feel free to clone my project and modify for yourself, but do keep in mind that I cannot accept your contribution.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

final: final commit + update readme
- Updated the readme to talk about app features
- Completed the project
- This is my final commit

Signed-off-by: Sp0k <contact@gabsavard.com>

README.md, after:

# Shift Notes
__*Shift Notes*__ is a note taking app built for ShiftKey Lab's React Native certification. This repository is a fork of ShiftKey's starter project fort he course. The app will allow users to write notes, save them, modify them and delete them. I also want to add a sharing feature so users can export their note and send it to their contacts and share their thoughts, gift ideas or grocery list.

You can test the application on expo using this [link](https://snack.expo.dev/@sp0k/shift-notes).

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation
Since this repository is my fork, you might be better checking out the [ShiftKey Labs Notion](https://shiftkeylabs.notion.site/Project-Install-Instructions-f937641104bc42e098fcfefcf7349608) for detailed installation instructions if you want to build your own version of the app.

Otherwise, here are the steps to install my fork if you'd rather use mine:

1) **Clone the repository:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Sp0k/ShiftNotes.git
cd ShiftNotes
```
2) **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```
Since this project uses **Expo** instead of Metro, you should make sure to use npm for any of the command you plan to use to install new dependencies or to run the server for example.

3) **Set up the environment:**

If you haven't already, make sure set up the React Native environment for your computer. To do so, follow the React Native environment setup guide for your operating system: [React Native Environment Setup](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

## Usage
Like stated before, the project uses **Expo** instead of metro, so you will need to use npm instead or yarn. In order to be able to view the app, you can use the following command:

```bash
npm run start
```
This will start the server and give you a QR code you can scan with your phone if you want to open the app on your phone using the *Expo Go* app. The server can also be opened on simulators on your computer and on the web.

## Features
Shift Notes has a few features that were interesting to play with. First, the class requirements for the certification were:

- Home screen displaying all of the notes using a MasonryList
- Search bar that reduces the amount of notes displayed on the home screen based on the user input
- Note editing screen that lets users type a title and content in the note
- Delete button to get rid of notes

I also was expected to add my own features to the app, so I added a:

- Prompt before going through on the deletion of notes to confirm the action
- Share button on the note editing screen
- Auto-scrolling on the editing screen to follow the position of the cursor (only tested on IOS)

## Contributing
Sadly, contributions are __not__ welcomed on this repository because it is a course project for a certification. Please feel free to clone my project and modify for yourself, but do keep in mind that I cannot accept your contribution.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
